Q1. What is security?
Protection of systems, network and data from unauthorize harm and penetration.
Encompasses CIA (Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability)
Why need it?
Without it your system is vulnerable to external attacks.
Prevents breaches and data losses

Use cases:
Every thing that involves sensitive data transmission and systems.

Confidentiality: (ECC,RSA,AES)
Ensure sensitive data is accessible to authorize personal.

Integrity:(SHA-256,SHA-1)
Data is intact and accurate and cannot be penetrated or tempered.

Availability:
Resource is available when required.

Security Challenges?
1. Access Level
2. Information Security
3. Adaptive Security governance

Access Level
1. Authentication (Identify individuals/devices)
2. Authorization (Determine the role of a particular identity)
3. Access Control (Process to allocate the request of the resource to a particular individual)

Security Governance/Adaptive Security Governance {Different devices having different security requirements)

What is centralized security solution?
A. Security controlled by a single entity (Cloudflare)


Assignment 1:
Create a Client-Server app that sends hello world from client to server (Done)

Peer-to-Peer vs Centralized Approach

For Centralized solution three modules are a must.
1. Rule Engine (Defines access level, information security requirements in the form of security rules).
2. Policy Engine (High level definition to security rules in the form of defining roles of legitimate users of interoperable services).
3. Context Engine (Responsible for making contextual information of security rules and policies for interoperable services for service execution).


Hash Funcitons.
SHA-256 Algorithm (SEE)

Assignment 2:
The goal of this assignment is to create a rule-based engine for identity management within a client-server system. The client must hash its identity and 
Send it to the server. The server will verify the hashed identity against a predefined list of authorized identities. If the identity is valid, the client
is allowed to send messages, otherwise reject the message.

Symmetric cryptosystems
A single key shared between two identities for encryption and decryption of information
Downsides. A interception between the entities can happen when key exchange is happening. (Eavesdropping)


Assuming we have two nodes A and B
Both have two keys (+ public , - private)

A wants to send a message to B. So utilizes the B's public key which anyone can use and sends the information to B

B then receives it and decrypts it via his own private key.

The benefit of this system is that private keys are not stored centrally reducing load on the servers.
There is however a central repository for public keys which is visible to all users and available to users.

The upshot is that yes any one can use another nodes key but its useless to another node as it doesn't have the private key to decrypt it.

Data Structures for Security.
1. Having a structure that handles data in terms of processing, storing and delivering data is crucial.
Create a ledger by utilizing a linked list

Challenge-1
A1 can its data only
A2 can see it data only
A3 can see it data

Challenge-2
Public and private keys mechanism

Challenge-3
Who is responsible to maintain the address of Linked List. 

